# minimal_morph_search
Searches for robot morphologies using APFO and CPPN genotypes.

# Getting Started
## In softbot_robot.py
* Implement the compute_work method in softbot_robot.py (line 102)
  * This method should assign a fitness for a given robot based on it's morphology.

## In utils.py (optional)
* Set the workspace size for robots (line 21)
* Set the minimum fraction of non-empty voxels for any robot (line 22)
* Set the number of materials you wish to use (line  25)

## In job.py (optional)
* set the population size (line 35)
* set the number of generations (line 36)
* set if you want printing per generation or not (line 38)

# Running your experiments
```
   mkdir run
   cd run
   python ../job.py <seed>
```
`<seed>` is an integer of your choice that will be used to "seed" the random number generator. 
  * e.g. `python ../job.py 0`


# Visualizing results
The `utilities` folder contains various helper functions for graphing results and visualizing the generated data.
You can either import everything by running
`from utilities import *`,
or follow the directions below for only using some of the functionality.

## Graphing results
The file [utilities/graph_results.py](utilities/graph_results.py) contains two functions for creating graphs of the generated designs:
* [graphStats](utilities/graph_results.py#L8) -- this creates a graph of Eeff vs nueff, color-coded by generation.
* [graphByGeneration](utilities/graph_results.py#L34) -- this creates two graphs (one per fitness function) of the average fitnesses of all the designs per generation.

To import all of the graphing functions, run

`from utilities.graph_results import *`

To only import `graphStats` and `graphByGeneration`, run

`from utilities.graph_results import graphStats, graphByGeneration`

Either way, now you can use these functions by running

`graphStats('ExampleFile.csv')`, or 
`graphByGeneration('ExampleFile.csv')`

## Viewing generated designs
When you run `job.py`, the program generates designs and then saves them as pickle files. The data in that pickle file includes the morphology of the design (saved as an array), the values for each of the fitness functions (in this case, Young's modulus and Poisson ratio), and the generation number. If you want to see what the design looks like, [utilities/unpickle_material.py](utilities/unpickle_material.py) contains a function that will convert the design into a png for you.

To import this function, run `import utilities.pickle_material`. Create an image from a pickle file generated by the program by running 

`pickle_material.pickle2img(<source>, <destination>)` 

where `<source>` is the name of the pickle file and `<destination>` is a name of your choosing for the .png image you'd like to create. For example, to generate a .png image named `Material01.png` of the design contained in the file `Material01.pickle`, you'd run:

`pickle_material.pickle2img('Material01.pickle', 'Material01.png')` 
